Snake Build
-----------

Snake Build has the goal to provide a build server for C/C\++ projects
including embedded projects. It should not be limited to C/C++ but this
should be the main focus.

The main difference between this Build server and the other build servers is
that all the configuration and build instructions for a project should be
stored within a version control system. This could be http://git-scm.com/[GIT]
or http://mercurial.selenic.com/[Mercurial] but should not be limited to those.

Overviews
~~~~~~~~~

The build server it self should consists out of several seperated modules. By 
dividing it into several seperate applications it is possible to have this 
modules running on seperate servers which helps to reduce the load and should
get a better scalabilety since not everything depends on a single instance.

image::application_overview.png[]

The image above shows the different components.

There are 4 different servers available, one client application and one agent
application. Each of those have one distinct job.

Control Server;;
    The Control Server is the server most users will use directly
    since this server will provide a webfrontend to controll and read the
    status of the other servers. (This is the frontend of snake build)

Reporting Server;;
    The reporting server is the server instance which receives
    all the build reports from all the build jobs, from the resource server and
    from the build server. It will collect all the data and provides the
    interface to query this informations.

Resource Server;;
    The resource server is the server which provides all the resources which
    can be used for building testing or anything else we can imaging that need
    to have a regulated access. The resources which he provides do not need to
    be connected the the resource server they might be fully indipendend or
    maybe they are not even capable to talk with a server. The server just
    assumes that the configured resources are available as configured.

Resource Client;;
    The resource client is not a resource it self it is a simple binary to
    request and release resources from the resource server. This binary will
    provide other commands to control the resource server.

Build Server;;
    The build server is the server which handles the build action. It does
    the triggering of the builds and tests. All the builds are configured via
    the build server he knows when to call what. It supports using different
    versions of the build scripts which are available and lets a build client
    run the right version of the scripts.

Build Client;;
    The build client is a simple worker client which gets the commands from the
    server to run. Each client will be able to run one task at a time but it is
    possible to have multiple clients running on one server to have mutiple
    jobs at the same time on one server. The build clients get handled via the
    resource server and therfore each build client is a resource as well but
    the client will not talk directly to the resource server since this is not
    necessary. The build clients sends the build results to the reporting
    server.

Build Scripts
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The build scripts are stored within a source repository this allows to develop
new build steps without affecting current builds which are still running on the
existing server.

Most other build system advise you to put your build scripts to the source of
your project. This might be ok if you have different build scripts for each
project but if you have an environment where you would like to control the
buildsteps in one place then this is not very practical to have them within
each project. It is possible to store the build scripts in one place and only
link to the scripts from the projects. This would work much better but if you
intend to use it relieable you still need to change each project just to test
the build steps.

By having the build scripts stored on the buildserver it is possible to change
the buildscripts for a project without chaning the repository of the original
project and within the build results we can store the revision of the build
scripts which where used to build the project. This way it is possible to
change the build scripts in one place and you still now which version was used
but the developers it self do not need to know which version of the build
scripts they should use.
